In the last video we established that we want to remap this underscore ID key name just to adjust ID
and we want to remove password in underscore underscore V.
We could definitely write out some code directly inside of our response right here, or the response
we send back whenever a user signs up.
But that would mean that we have to duplicate that code to any other location where we intend to send
a user back to whoever made the request.
So in other words, we would have to duplicate that logic over to current user and probably sign in
as well because chances are those are root handlers that are going to send back the user who just signed
in or the one who is signed in.
So we should figure out a better way or a more reusable way to make sure that we can remap those properties
and delete some properties as well.
So to handle this, I want to give you a quick reminder on how JavaScript turns objects into JSON data
might not seem super relevant when I say that, but trust me, it very much is relevant.
I'm going to open up a quick JavaScript console inside my browser and just write out a little bit of
code.
Just to give you a very quick reminder.
I'm going to create a new object inside of here called Person, and I'll give them a name of Alex.
I'm then going to turn that into JSON by doing a JSON string of PHI and passed in person.
All right.
No big surprise there.
As usual, we just are getting the JSON representation of the object person.
So it's got name of Alex.
It turns out that we can actually override how JavaScript turns an object into JSON.
Let me show you how I'm going to define a second person.
So person to.
This person is going to have a name of.
Also, Alex.
And I'm going to also define a method inside of here called to JSON and notice that it is all capitals
JSON.
So here's my method.
I'm going to make sure I've got the correct number of curly braces so my implementation would go inside
of here whenever we call JSON string ify on person too, rather than just trying to string ify the entire
object, JavaScript is going to instead invoke this two JSON method.
So whatever logic we put inside there, whatever we return from that function right there, is going
to be the JSON representation of this object as opposed to the default behavior, which is to just string
ify all the keys and values and so on.
He wants something really interesting.
We could return one.
So now whenever we try to string a fi person to rather than getting back a string with a name of Alex,
we're going to instead run this method.
It's going to return one, and so one is going to be our JSON representation of person two.
So I'll do a JSON string of PHI person to.
And look at that.
That is definitely not an accurate representation of the string ified version of Person two, but it's
what we said we wanted to do.
So as you guess, well, we can pretty much do something like this right here to make sure that we always
whenever we send some JSON data tied to a user back to the browser or in a response, we can define
that to JSON method and then customize exactly what we return.
So we can remap some properties, we can delete properties and so on.
So how do we actually do that?
How do we actually apply this to.
Our user document right here.
Well, we're going to go back over to our model directory, find the user file.
Here it is right here.
I'm going to go down to where we create our schema.
I'm going to add in a second argument.
That's going to be an object.
Inside of this argument.
I'm going to add in to JSON.
To Jason inside of here works a little bit differently than what I just showed you at the console.
So remember at the console if I go back over to my browser.
And I deleted that example.
There we go right here.
So at the console, we defined a to JSON function tied to an object.
The same idea is still related or relevant to the world of mongoose.
It's just implemented slightly, slightly differently.
So inside this second object right here, we're going to define to JSON.
And rather than being a function, instead it is going to be an object.
Inside of here, we're going to define a set of properties that are going to help Mongoose take our
user document and turn it into JSON.
So again, it is not quite identical to what I just showed you inside the console where we just defined
one function.
Instead, we get this object we can pass in a set of different customization options that describe how
to turn our document into JSON.
To see a full list of how we can do that customization, we can do a command click.
So on your keyboard, hold down command and then click on to JSON.
This is going to take you to the definition of what to JSON should be.
We can then do another command click or control click if you are on Windows and click on document to
object options.
So these are all the properties we can list out inside that object to somehow customize how our document
gets turned into JSON.
So we can set up some different getters.
We can remove some empty, empty objects and some other stuff inside of here as well.
Okay.
So with that in mind, I do want to point out one particular option called transform.
That's the option we are going to use to kind of massage how our user document gets turned into JSON.
It is similar in nature to the to JSON function we just saw inside of the browser.
It just works a little bit differently.
In particular, take a look at the arguments on here and the documentation right above it.
The first argument is referred to as Doc.
This is going to be the actual document or the actual user instance that we are turning into JSON.
The second argument is referred to as RET.
RET is short for returned object or something similar to that.
This is a kind of pre or a attempt at turning this thing into JSON by mongoose.
So Mongoose is going to try to turn this thing into JSON for us.
So RET is going to be just the properties that are tied to our user document.
So for example, just that ID, just the email and just the password.
If we want to make any further changes to how Mongoose is going to turn this thing into JSON, we are
going to modify that RET object in place.
So we are going to directly modify that RET object and whatever direct changes we make to that RET object,
those changes will be reflected in the final JSON ified version.
Now a lot of this stuff sounds kind of complicated, so let's just write some code and I think you'll
get a good idea of what's going on really quickly.
Okay.
So back inside my user file.
We've got to.
Jason, I'm going to put in.
Transform.
We're going to get in arguments of dock and rent.
So again, this is the actual user document.
This is the thing that's going to eventually be turned into JSON.
So we're going to make some direct changes to that thing right there.
We're not trying to return a new object or anything like that.
We are making direct changes to that object.
Let's first try just to just remove the password property because we do not want the password property
to show up inside of any JSON representation.
So to do so, we would write out delete ret dot password.
Now delete right here is a keyword that you do not see very often in JavaScript.
The delete keyword is going to remove a property off of an object.
This is normal JavaScript right here.
This is not typescript or something special like that.
You can use the delete keyword with normal plain old JavaScript.
So that will completely remove the password property.
So let's save this.
We're going to go and sign up for a new user with Postman once again.
And you'll see right away that we're not going to get back the password property in our response.
Okay.
So back over with Postman.
I'm going to enter in a new unique email it send.
And there we go.
There's my response.
So you'll now see that we do not have any password inside there.
So we can now repeat this process to remove, underscore, underscore V and to rename ID as well.
Let's try removing that underscore underscore V so we could do a delete ret underscore underscore.
So make sure you've got two right there be.
I'll save this.
We'll do just another very quick test.
So I'll go and create another user.
But in the unique email and.
All right.
That's even looking better now.
Just, you know, if we look really carefully at the two JSON options that we were just looking at a
moment ago, that underscore underscore V thing is what is known as a version key.
So there actually is a separate object or option right here to say that we do not want to include that
version key.
So if we wanted to, we could absolutely add that thing or just set version key to false to not include
it.
Or alternatively, we could just do what we are doing right here and delete it manually.
Either one is totally fine.
Okay.
So then finally, last thing we need to do is remap that ID property.
Remember, we need to make changes to this RET object, which means that remapping or renaming that
property is going to actually require two separate lines.
So first we're going to set ret ID to whatever the underscore ID property is and then we will delete
RET.
Underscore ID like so.
Okay.
So let's save that.
Go back over once again.
Change that email.
Send it off.
And there we go.
We're now left with simply email and ID.
So now we don't see any properties that we do not want to see.
In addition, ID is using the more consistent form of just ID as opposed to underscore ID.
All right, so that looks way better.
We're going to end up repeating this approach in several other services as well.
Any time that we need to take a resource and turn it into plain JSON.
There's other thing.
One other thing I want to mention very quickly.
It is a typical in other words, it is not super common to put together some logic like this inside
of a model definition file.
What we're really doing right here is defining how some data inside of our application should be viewed
or transmitted along the network.
It is not common to define that inside of something like this right here or inside of our model file.
Instead, that is more traditionally kind of like a view related responsibility.
So if we're trying to follow a model view controller kind of concept, what we're doing right here is
really writing out some view lever like view level logic.
So again, not the best approach, but for our purposes, this is going to work very easily for right
now.
Okay.
So that's definitely a good improvement.
Let's take a quick pause right here and continue in just a moment.